# Work Diary - z5204704

## Week 01
Coming into the course, we had already formed our group so we could hit the ground running. Prior to the first meeting, I setup the Jira account for the group and also wrote a meeting agenda with all the required topics of discussion (also, subsequently writing minutes during the meeting).

Following the meeting, I completed personal actionable items, informing the tutor of our project selection (LMS) and scrum master (myself) along with adding the tutor to Jira. Due to the course changing the Jira specification, I also re-created the group Jira (and confluence) account, copied over all the information we had already worked on, and added the tutor to this.

Starting to break down the project and understand our feature set, I initially wrote out two proposed novel features for our software and subsequently produced a full set of user stories from the provided spec and my proposed extensions.

Since this week surrounded project planning and no technical implementation, there were no technical obstacles. Non-technically it was smooth for the first week as well. All required work to be completed, as actionable from the previous meeting, were completed. The next weeks work will surround the project proposal and finalisation of features, with specific tasks to come out of our Monday afternoon meeting.


## Week 02
During week 2 we had two group meetings which defined tasks. During Monday's meeting I presented my work on User stories for discussion, with the group making some modifications and clarifications. It was noted that these will more form our epic stories (the overall features for the project).

With the group's decision to use Latex for writing our report, I was tasked with setting up the space for the report. Within overleaf, I set up the group's document. This included spending some time to ensure the formatting aligned with the course requirements (including the style, referencing, title page, and sections). I then shared this with the group.

After the group split up the work for the project proposal, I was tasked to work with Aditi on the User stories and the background. During the latter part of the week, the two of us together spent time expanding the features that the group had decided on into a full set of user stories. In total we wrote 37 user stories each with accompanying acceptance criteria. Additionally, we set up the Jira to include all of our epics and user stories.

Aditi and I split up the work for writing our sections of the report, with myself writing the user stories/sprints section and Aditi writing the background.

Having still not started technical work this week, there were no technical challenges faced. Non-technically, I faced the challenge of ensuring that our user stories were both broad enough to ensure that implementation would be possible but also included the whole required scope. Additionally, it was important to ensure that they were achievable within the time frame we have to implement this project.

All desired work for this week was completed.

Before the next entry, I want to have finished the report and reviewed the sections of the other group. Additionally, I would like to start on the project itself (precise first steps to be decided next week).


## Week 03
This week was primarily spent finalising the project proposal for submission. After meeting with the group and reviewing all written user stories, some modifications were proposed. I, in turn, made these changes within Jira and the report. Additionally, I created both priorities and estimated story points for all user stories.

Having completed the work in Jira, I could finalise the user story and sprints section of the report that I was tasked with. Prior to submission, I also reviewed and edited all sectionthe of the report and ensured that it satisfied all formatting requirements.

To start work on the project itself, in the latter part of this week I started on a database diagram that would define the information that our system will need to store. This involved splitting everything that needs to be stored into independent entities and understanding their interrelation. Although only a small subset of the whole system will be implemented in the first sprint, I have worked on a diagram for the majority of the system so that we can have a better understanding of how the system will come together. Alongside this diagram, I also began to understand how it will be transformed into an implementation as schemas through MongoDB.

Alsongside working on the database diagram came my first technical challenge. While it is not too difficult to determine a layout for storing information that is created for a given page that is available to all users, it is less trivial to determine the means of storing user-specific data. For example, with our quiz module, when a particular student looks at the quiz page, they have to see their own results. This is a point I would like to further discuss with the group during next week.

Since I am moving ahead by starting the technical implementation which was not an expectation of the group, I am up to date with all required tasks. Early next week I would like to finalise the implementation of the database schemas required for sprint 1. Beyond this, in a meeting on Sunday evening we split up initial tasks for the first sprint and I will plan to complete my first assigned user story, which revolves around checking if a user has permissions to view a page.

## Week 04
Week 4 involved the primary implementation work for sprint 1. Having done some precursary work on system design with no significant implementation work in the previous week (week 3), I was ready to start writing code. On the technical side, my role in the group is as a backend developer. This means that I have started preparing API endpoints for various components of the system.

My first assigned task revolved around admin and access privlages, creating endpoints for checking whether a user can access a given page and checking their admin/instructor rights. Completing this gave me a strong introduction to working with our chosen tech stack. Particularly, ensuring I was fluent in typescript (I had previously used javascript so this was not too hard) along with re-familiarising myself with both express and mongoose.

Beyond this I could move to pick up more tasks and completed the majority of the backend endpoints required for the first sprint, first implementing those revolving around courses (creating, fetching, updating, and listing courses). By mid-week I could pick up new tasks and moved onto those related to uploading files to courses. Since files would be located within a given page, there were endpoints required for creating pages (creating, deleting, updating, fetching, and listing pages). With pages having a customisable arrangement of elements with them holding resources (files) that may be split amoung subsections it was important to make a powerful updating endpoint that would handle this level of customisation. Ensuring that this could satisfactorily handle the system requirements became my first technical challenge. This also followed into my week's second technical challenge which was interfacing with firebase store which we are using to upload and store files that an instructor adds to a course. With many possibilities in completing this, I spent some time understanding the benefits of different approaches and finally implemented our means of uploading and similarly fetching files for downloading.

I feel that I have completed more than the work I expected this week trying to prepare much of the backend earlier so it can be linked up with the frontend as required.

Before next week, I want to help with and finalise any required backend endpoints and if required work on some of the frontend components. Since the latter part of the week will start our second sprint, I will also aim to complete my first assigned tasks for that sprint, but these are not known yet as we haven't had our sprint meeting to decide what parts of the implementation will be completed during the next sprint.

## Week 05
Week 5 was the final week of sprint 1. With most of the work I needed to complete for the sprint done in the previous week, I spent the start of this one finishing of any remaining backend tasks and helping with other implementation tasks needed for the first sprint. This was done since there were some outstanding tasks as we approached the deadline that needed to be completed.

In the latter part of the week (after the demonstration of sprint 1), I started work on the second sprint. This included sprint planning, reviewing all remaining tasks and splitting off which would be completed in sprint two and which in sprint three. This could then be presented early next week to the group. Additionally, I have spent some time on completing the remaining components of the database model, including translating these into models within the codebase ready for use. I have also gone ahead and written a full documentation of all endpoints for the remainder of the system as a point from our retrospective was to have this done prior to implementation (I decided to take it upon myself to complete this).

Since I had been working so far in the backend, my first technical challenge revolved around learning the intricies of nextJS (the frontend framework the group is using) to be able to help with some frontend implementation. Further from this, as I worked on the database my second challenge followed on from my technical challenge in week 3, determining the final implementation of storing user-specific data in the database, ensuring that it is done in a way that is efficient to recall when required.

I have completed all expected tasks so am not behind at this stage or have anything outstanding.

Before next week, I would like to have begun implementation for sprint two, however the exact tasks that I will work on will be decided in our Monday meeting next week.

## Week 06
Week 6 (flexibility week) I spent finilising forward planning that I took on for the group and starting with implementation for the next sprint. I fixed up some modifications to the endpoint specification for the group and converted my database model into schemas in code. After our group meeting Monday where we finalised the sprint plan, I began work on implementation. I am initially assigned the backend for the assessment tasks epic (all user stories for this epic are part of this sprint). In particular, I have written all the backend endpoints for quizzes (except for grading them) and the creation and viewing of assignments.

There were no particular technical challenges I faced during this week.

Since there was technically no work specified for flexibility week, I am ahead with the work I have completed this week.

Before next week, I would like to have the remaining endpoints written for submitting and grading assignments and quizzes.

## Week 07
This week comprised of continued work towards sprint 2. I spent much of the early week on my tasks and had completed all those assignment to me by Friday. As a result, I spent time during the weekend helping others on their tasks. As part of this, I worked on the frontend of assignments, including creating, viewing, and submitting them. Beyond this, I put some time to complete a bit of refactoring of the backend codebase to neaten up some segments (including admin routes, and error codes).

I feel I have been working well within the scope of the required work and as such have not been facing any significant complications.

With this sprint due next Wednesday, I am ahead of my required tasks at this time.

Before next week, I want to finish off any remaining components I can help with and start the work on sprint 3 (post-demo).